Answer for Task2:

This system inconsistency and slow performance could be caused by many factors.

Slow performance : 
The system database queries are retrieving a huge number of records or take a long time to execute,
which slows the response, especially if an ORM like EF Core is tracking all these records unnecessary(a critical development error).
Also, a large number of concurrent users will exhaust the server resources, which leads to requests waiting in queues.

Inconsistency
The frontend cache of the server state (like the TanStack Query cache) is not handling all mutations properly,
which leads to the cache still being considered fresh while the data is actually stale;
then the frontend does not refetch new data, so it stays outdated.
Also, some incomplete requests could leave the API server in an undefined state.
For example, if the network is cut off after the request is already sent, 
then another request is fired, and the server needs to deal with two or more concurrent requests. 
The same happens if many users access the same data on the server.

How to debug
First, we need to check the logs (on the API server and the frontend server).
Database queries (the raw SQL executed) on the API server, along with execution time, are very informative data 
for such cases. 
We also need to check the profiler on the React side to discover how much time each component consumes to load and re-render.

How to fix it
We need to trace the request on both the frontend and backend, 
and watch carefully how the request/response walkthrough is established.
We need to make GET requests that fetch lists paginated (so we fetch one page of 15 records instead of millions), 
and guarantee that in EF Core, for example, by ensuring lazy loading, 
so we query only the required records from the database. 
Sorting and paging should happen on the database side, not on the API server side.
Make GetRecords use AsNoTracking if no change is intended with them. 
Similarly, we need to apply lazy loading for React pages (load on demand).
Make the cache on both the backend and frontend responsive to any event that requires invalidating the cached data.

How to redesign it for scale
We need to write optimized queries from the beginning, 
with indices (to avoid slow queries on the most-fetched records), 
a normalized database, and clean out unneeded packages.

Make the API async, so I/O time is used by other cpu processes.

In case slow performance is caused by a huge number of users, 
we can make the system distributed partially; deploying some features across many servers so they handle many users.